+++
title = "Predicting Behavioural Patterns in Discussion Forums using Deep Learning on Hypergraphs"

# Date first published.
date = "2019-09-04"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Devanshu Arya**", "Stevan Rudinac", "Marcel Worring"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of the 17th IEEE Content Based Multimedia Indexing (CBMI) Conference*"
publication_short = "In *CBMI 2019*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Online discussion forums provide open workspace allowing users to share information, exchange ideas, address problems, and form groups. These forums feature multimodal posts and analyzing them requires a framework that can integrate heterogeneous information extracted from the posts, i.e. text, visual content and the information about user interactions with the online platform and each other. In this paper, we develop a generic framework that can be trained to identify communication behavior and patterns in relation to an entity of interest, be it user, image or text in internet forums. As the case study we use the analysis of violent online political extremism content, which has been a major challenge for domain experts. We demonstrate the generalizability and flexibility of our framework in predicting relational information between multimodal entities by conducting extensive experimentation around four practical use cases."
abstract_short = "We present a framework, which combines semantic concepts and contextual relations between entities in a discussion forum to predict communication behavior and patterns in relation to various types of entities."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8877384/"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link 1", url = "http://example.org"},
#              {name = "Custom Link 2", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""


+++



# Further details on your publication can be written here using *Markdown* for formatting. This text will be displayed on the Publication Detail page.
