+++
title = "Exploiting Relational Information in Social Networks using Geometric Deep Learning on Hypergraphs"

# Date first published.
date = "2018-06-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Devanshu Arya**", "Marcel Worring"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *International Conference in Multimedia Retrieval 2018*"
publication_short = "In *ICMR 2018*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Online social networks are constituted by a diverse set of entities including users, images and posts which makes the task of predicting interdependencies between entities challenging. We need a model that transfers information from a given type of relations between entities to predict other types of relations, irrespective of the type of entity. In order to devise a generic framework, one needs to capture the relational information between entities without any entity dependent information. However, there are two challenges: (a) a social network has an intrinsic community structure. In these communities, some relations are much more complicated than pairwise relations, thus cannot be simply modeled by a graph; (b) there are different types of entities and relations in a social network, taking into account all of them makes it difficult to formulate a model. In this paper, we claim that representing social networks using hypergraphs improves the task of predicting missing information about an entity by capturing higher-order relations. We study the behavior of our method by performing experiments on CLEF dataset consisting of images from Flickr, an online photo sharing social network."
abstract_short = "We propose a generic framework which can transfer relational information from one type of relation to predict other types of relations between entities. Our approach is entity independent and captures higher-order relations by using hypergraph-based representation of a social network."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.1145/3206025.3206062"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = "/docs/icmr_presentation.pdf"
url_video = ""
url_poster = "/docs/icmr_poster.pdf"
url_source = ""

# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link 1", url = "http://example.org"},
#              {name = "Custom Link 2", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""


+++



# Further details on your publication can be written here using *Markdown* for formatting. This text will be displayed on the Publication Detail page.
