+++
title = "Fusing Structural and Functional MRIs using Graph Convolutional Networks for Autism Classification"

# Date first published.
date = "2020-01-31"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["**Devanshu Arya**", "Richard Olij", "Deepak K. Gupta", "Ahmed El Gazzar", "Guido van Wingen", "Marcel Worring", "Rajat Mani Thomas"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Medical Imaging with Deep Learning*"
publication_short = "In *MIDL 2020*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Geometric deep learning methods such as graph convolutional networks have recently proven to deliver generalized solutions in disease prediction using medical imaging. In this paper, we focus particularly on their use in autism classification. Most of the recent methods use graphs to leverage phenotypic information about subjects (patients or healthy controls) as additional contextual information. To do so, metadata such as age, gender and acquisition sites are utilized to define intricate relations (edges) between the subjects. We alleviate the use of such non-imaging metadata and propose a fully imaging-based approach where information from structural and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) data are fused to construct the edges and nodes of the graph. To characterize each subject, we employ brain summaries. These are 3D images obtained from the 4D spatiotemporal resting-state fMRI data through summarization of the temporal activity of each voxel using neuroscientifically informed temporal measures such as amplitude low frequency fluctuations and entropy. Further, to extract features from these 3D brain summaries, we propose a 3D CNN model. We perform analysis on the open dataset for autism research (full ABIDE I-II) and show that by using simple brain summary measures and incorporating sMRI information, there is a noticeable increase in the generalizability and performance values of the framework as compared to state-of-the-art graph-based models."
abstract_short = "We propose a novel 3D CNN-GCN model for improved classification of subjects for autism disorders. The CNN module is used to encode the summarized 3D volumes into lower dimensional feature vectors for the nodes of the graph model."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
projects = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://openreview.net/pdf?id=EKu4FU5s4"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link 1", url = "http://example.org"},
#              {name = "Custom Link 2", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

# Further details on your publication can be written here using *Markdown* for formatting. This text will be displayed on the Publication Detail page.
